SDC Tools Module Sprint 2 (#1227)
CodeYourFuture/curriculum: common-content/en/module/tools/programming-language-concepts/index.md

    2="Describe how a variable relates to a memory location."
    3="Identify whether variables have fixed types in C, Python, and JavaScript."
    4="Explain how the next memory location is found when declaring a local variable on the stack."
    5="Explain why some variables are allocated on the heap not the stack."
    6="Explain when memory used for a variable on the stack is released."
    7="Explain when memory used for a variable on the heap is released."
    8="Define an operator."
    9="Give examples of common operators."
    10="Explain the difference between integer division and floating point division."
    11="Describe the meaning of the &, |, ^, and ~ bitwise operators."
    12="Manually perform the function of the &, |, ^, and ~ bitwise operators on two integers."
    13="Describe the meaning of the && (and), || (or), and ! (not) operators."
    14="Explain when it's more appropriate to use a while loop or a for loop."
    15="Identify and explain the differences between a function definition in C and Python."
    16="Explain what happens when you call a function."
    17="Explain what a class is."
    18="Describe the relationship between an object and a class."

>     19="Compare compiled and interpreted languages."

Author: Yeah, I will edit this down into 5 key things and a few exercises :D

+++
title = "Programming language concepts"
headless = true
time = 120
facilitation = false
emoji= "📖"
objectives=[

>     "Describe what a variable is.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "Define the term variable",
```

    "Describe how a variable relates to a memory location.",

>     "Give examples of common operators.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "Give 3 examples of common operators.",
```

>     "Describe the meaning of the `&&` (`and`), `||` (`or`), and `!` (`not`) operators.",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "Define the `&&` (`and`), `||` (`or`), and `!` (`not`) operators.",
```

    "Explain what happens when you call a function.",
]
+++

Read the learning objectives listed on this page: Bear in mind what you’re trying to achieve while reading this text. If a topic isn’t making much sense, and isn’t in the objectives, you can probably skip over it. If a topic is listed in the objectives, you should keep studying it until you are confident you’ve met the objective.

{{<note type="Reading">}}
Read chapter 9 of How Computers Work.

Do every exercise listed in the chapter.

You can skip the projects (though you're welcome to try any of them if you have time!).
{{</note>}}

Check you have achieved each learning objective listed on this page.

{{<note type="Exercise">}}

> Write down an explanation of what a variable is. Make sure to use the term "memory location" in your explanation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explain how a variable is used. Make sure to use the term "memory location" in your explanation.
```

{{</note>}}

{{<note type="Exercise">}}
Write down what operators you have used in a programming language.

> Next to each, write down whether it's a unary, binary, or ternary operator.

Reviewer: Grouping and sorting is a good learning tool, so let's tweak this slightly to use it. 
```suggestion
Now sort your operators into three categories: unary, binary, or ternary. Label each operator as a unary, binary, or ternary operator.
```

Author: Will make this a Labeller

Make sure you have at least one example of a unary operator, a binary operator, and a ternary operator.
{{</note>}}

{{<note type="Exercise">}}
Write down what happens when you call a function.

Make sure you include how the "next line of code to run" moves around, parameters/arguments, return values, and scope.
{{</note>}}

{{<note type="Exercise">}}

> Write down an explanation of what a class is, which could be understood by someone who's never written any code before.

Reviewer: They will need much more guidance on this or they will get stuck for hours.  A lot of trainees have no practice in composing arguments and have never written an essay of any kind. 

Let's show them how to define a class in this way. 

```suggestion
Now write an explanation of what a class is, which could be understood by someone who's never written any code before. To help you do this, answer each of these sub questions and then put your answers together to form your explanation. 

1. How is a class like a Big Mac?
2. What is the difference between a burger template, like a Big Mac recipe, and the Big Mac you order for yourself in the store?
```

Reviewer: Assign a Big Mac related energiser/demo thing in the following week.

Reviewer 2: Similar to my comment above - there's several points here where trainees are instructed to "write down" something. Can we push them more explicitly towards introspection of their understanding?

I recognise that getting them to submit it for review is unlikely to go anywhere though. And perhaps we are making an assumption that trainees at this stage already know they need to do this?

Include at least one real-world example of when a class is useful.

Make sure you describe the relationship between a class and an instance of a class.
{{</note>}}

{{<note type="Exercise">}}
Instances of classes are often called objects.

> This kind of "object" is similar to, but slightly different from what we call an "object" in JavaScript.

Reviewer: I like the probing questions but I think you might end up chasing people to chatgpt.

Can we have 1 essay question, one sorting, one quiz, and a diagramming activity, and then maybe this one should be a preparation for discussion?

Instead of having them do this writing, can we galvanise attention a bit by projecting into a real conversation (that they actually have)?

In class we will do an activity together. You will give your explanation of classes to another person and they will ask you questions. Then you will swap and you will ask the questions. Prepare some questions you might ask now.  Here's an example:

Instances of classes are often called objects. etc etc

Author: I've moved the unary/binary/ternary operator question to be a labelling question (will updated when the labeller is merged), and introduced the rest as "prepare for in-class discussion" which is also now coursework in https://github.com/CodeYourFuture/Module-Tools/issues/12

> Write down the differences between the two meanings of the word object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write down the differences between these two meanings of the word object.
```
